Initial commit for PM role description (#3080)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/handbook/product/product-manager-role.md

---
title: Role of a Product Manager
sidebar: Handbook
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
---

# Role of a Product Manager

The role of a Product Manager varies enormously by individual and organization, however there are some nuances about what makes a great Product Manager at PostHog and what you can expect from them.

## Why do we have Product Managers?

> Product development at PostHog is engineering led, all new projects and existing features have an engineering owner who is the "informed captain" making the final call on everything that they build. Product Managers ensure these owners have the company, industry and customer context they need to make great decisions whilst challenging them to move faster and think bigger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Product development at PostHog is engineering led, all new projects and existing [features have an engineering owner](/handbook/engineering/feature-ownership) who is the "informed captain" making the final call on everything that they build. Product Managers ensure these owners have the company, industry and customer context they need to make great decisions whilst challenging them to move faster and think bigger.
```

> Product development at PostHog is engineering led, all new projects and existing [features have an engineering owner](/handbook/engineering/feature-ownership) who is the "informed captain" making the final call on everything that they build. Product Managers ensure these owners have the company, industry and customer context they need to make great decisions whilst challenging them to move faster and think bigger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Product development at PostHog is engineering-led, all new projects and existing [features have an engineering owner](/handbook/engineering/feature-ownership) who is the "informed captain" making the final call on everything that they build. Product Managers ensure these owners have the company, industry and customer context they need to make great decisions whilst challenging them to move faster and think bigger.
```

## How do they act?

> * **Accelerating** - They're always looking for opportunities push the team to ship faster, more impact and high quality 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Accelerating** - They're always looking for opportunities push the team to ship faster, with more impact and high quality 
```

> * **Accelerating** - They're always looking for opportunities push the team to ship faster, with more impact and high quality 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Accelerating** - They're always looking for opportunities push the team to ship faster, with greater impact and quality. 
```

> * **Empowering** - They empower others to make great decisions and elevate their ambition through context and coaching

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Empowering** - They empower others to make great decisions and elevate their ambition through context and coaching.
```

> * **Thoughtful** - Deeply consider the implications and motivations of product decisions and tailor their approach to get the most out of every team member.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Thoughtful** - They carefully consider the implications and motivations of product decisions and tailor their approach to get the most out of every team member.
```

> * **Thoughtful** - Deeply consider the implications and motivations of product decisions and tailor their approach to get the most out of every team member

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Thoughtful** - Deeply consider the implications and motivations of product decisions and tailor their approach to get the most out of every team member.
```

## What do they do?

### Strategy

> * **Direction** - Set and align the team / company on the most impactful and exciting direction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Direction** - Align the team and company on the most impactful and exciting direction.
```

> * **Direction** - Set and align the team / company on the most impactful and exciting direction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Direction** - Set and align the team / company on the most impactful and exciting direction.
```

> * **Goals & Metrics** - Set and align the team / company on ambitious goals and metrics to validate our progress

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Goals & Metrics** - Set and align the team / company on ambitious goals and metrics to validate our progress.
```

> * **Goals & Metrics** - Set and align the team / company on ambitious goals and metrics to validate our progress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Goals & Metrics** - Set ambitious company and team goals to validate our progress.
```

> * **New Opportunities** - Find new, impactful and exciting opportunities for the team / company to exploit

Author: Agreed.
```suggestion
* **New Opportunities** - Find new, impactful and exciting opportunities for the team / company to to capitalize on
```

> * **New Opportunities** - Find new, impactful and exciting opportunities for the team / company to exploit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **New Opportunities** - Find new, impactful and exciting opportunities for the team and company to capitalize on.
```

### Execution

> * **Context** - Gather and summarize customer, company and industry context into clear actionable opinions to inform product decisions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Context** - Gather and summarize customer, company and industry context into clear actionable opinions to inform product decisions.
```

> * **Context** - Gather and summarize customer, company and industry context into clear actionable opinions to inform product decisions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Context** - Gather and summarize customer, company and industry context into clear actionable opinions which inform product decisions.
```

> * **Unblock** - Identify bottlenecks and remove them, make fast and thorough calls on the toughest product decisions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Unblock** - Identify and remove bottlenecks to enable fast calls on the toughest product decisions.
```

> * **Unblock** - Identify bottlenecks and remove them, make fast and thorough calls on the toughest product decisions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Unblock** - Identify bottlenecks and remove them; make fast and thorough calls on the toughest product decisions.
```

> * **Unblock** - Identify bottlenecks and remove them, make fast and thorough calls on the toughest product decisions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Unblock** - Identify bottlenecks and remove them, make fast and thorough calls on the toughest product decisions.
```

> * **Challenge** - Challenge the team to think bigger, solve the most impactful problems and stretch their own skills

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Challenge** - Challenge the team to think bigger, solve the most impactful problems and stretch their own skills.
```

> * **Fill Gaps** - If we don't have a role for something but it needs to be done to ship a great product, do it

Author: By technical competency - do you mean like engineering skills?

> * **Fill Gaps** - If we don't have a role for something but it needs to be done to ship a great product, do it

Reviewer 3: yup

> * **Fill Gaps** - If we don't have a role for something but it needs to be done to ship a great product, do it

Reviewer 4: I think PMs (and designers) should know how browsers work, what terms mean what, and be able to communicate with engineers using engineering terminology. A background in code is great, but I think a PM can be great even without that experience.

> * **Fill Gaps** - If we don't have a role for something but it needs to be done to ship a great product, do it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Fill Gaps** - If we don't have a role for something but it needs to be done to ship a great product, do it.
```

> * **Communicate** - Over-communicate, over-transparently

Reviewer 4: I see communication as one of the most important execution actions / habits a PM can have. A great communicator will be more effective at all the other execution steps.

> * **Communicate** - Over-communicate, over-transparently

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Communicate** - Over-communicate, over-transparently.
```
